# August

Create a **Fall Coffee Hour** signup sheet, beginning with the start of fall
classes (that is, the Monday between 25 and 31 August, inclusive), and ending
with the week after fall final exams (that is, the Monday between 15 and 21
December, inclusive).  Keep in mind that Coffee Hour should be moved to Tuesday
when in conflict with the following holidays:

* Labor Day (first Monday of September)
* Fall Holiday (typically second Monday of October; check the Academic Calendar)

Early in the month, determine the **food and supplies budget for the Welcome
Picnic.** Since this is paid for by the department, this should be coordinated
directly with the Department Chair.  Data on past years' purchases and the
resulting leftovers will be more persuasive in the case that a budget increase
may be necessary or desired.

Additionally, coordinate **soda for the Welcome Picnic;** this is usually done
with Deb.  In some years, the department may have a large reserve of soda in
their stockroom, in which case they should let you take from that.  In other
years, their stock may be depleted, in which case the CS-GSO should offer to
purchase some on the department's behalf, although this may require use of the
department's purchasing card (P-card) and coordination with Don.  **In any
case, the department has historically paid for the soda.**

Conduct a thorough cleaning of the refrigerator and microwave in the Graduate
Lounge (SENSQ 6317).  Pick a day, preferably before new students arrive, to do
this after lunch, around 2:00pm, so as not to disrupt those who use the space
regularly.  A few days prior, send an email to the grad list and post a notice
on the refrigerator about the scheduled cleaning, something like:

	Grad students,

	In preparation for the arrival of the new graduate students, the CS-GSO
    will be cleaning out the refrigerator in the Graduate Lounge on Friday 15
    August 2014 beginning at 2:00pm.

	A reminder that all items put in the refrigerator must always be labeled
    with your name and the current date, otherwise they are for everyone to
    use.  Any items that remain unlabeled or are clearly out-of-date as of
    Friday at 2:00pm will be discarded at that time.

	We will also be taking care of other housekeeping tasks for the Graduate
    Lounge at that time as well.

Start individually **copying the new incoming students on emails** to the grad
list in mid-August when topics start shifting toward Orientation Week events
and the picnic.  Double-check with Keena that the list hasn't changed before
sending anything.  Be sure to include all incoming PhD and MS students, as well
as BS/MS students entering the master's program.

Begin **planning any special events** you may wish to hold during the fall
term.  Coordinate with other organizations and book rooms accordingly.

