First and foremost, the CS-GSO is responsible to the graduate students of the
Computer Science Department at the University of Pittsburgh.  Although we also
strive to help the undergraduate students, faculty, and staff of the department
whenever possible, this is not our main organizational focus.  This chapter
aims to detail the overall structure of governance which the CS-GSO plays a
part of, as well as the organization's duties thereto.

# Organizational structure

The **Computer Science Graduate Student Organization (CS-GSO)** serves the
approximately 100 graduate students of the Computer Science Department at Pitt.
Its purposes are to amplify the voices of the graduate students in the
department and to provide social events to improve their experience, roughly as
defined throughout the remainder of this document.

The CS-GSO does not hold regular meetings; rather, the board chooses to hold
meetings as necessary to efficiently conduct its business.  The CS-GSO office
is located at **SENSQ 6502**, although it is more often used by the CS-GSO for
storage.  The CS-GSO website is located at
[http://gso.cs.pitt.edu](http://gso.cs.pitt.edu).

The **Arts & Sciences Graduate Student Organization (A&S-GSO)** serves the
approximately 1,400 graduate students across the 33 departments of the Kenneth
P Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences at Pitt, including the CS department.
It provides services such as travel grants for student conference attendance,
electronic thesis workshops, and teaching awards.  Additionally, it hosts
academic events such as Grad Expo.

The A&S-GSO General Council holds monthly meetings from September through
April, and consists of one delegate from each of the 33 departments.  **The
CS-GSO is required to send a delegate to these meetings.**  The A&S-GSO office
is located at **SENSQ 5603**, where the administrative assistant holds
approximately 6 office hours each week.  For details, visit the A&S-GSO website
at [http://asgso.pitt.edu](http://asgso.pitt.edu).

The **Graduate and Professional Student Government (GPSG)** serves the
approximately 9,900 graduate and professional students across the 14 graduate
and professional schools at Pitt, including the Dietrich School of Arts and
Sciences.  It provides services such as travel grants for student conference
attendance, legal services, and supplemental funding for several non-academic
student organizations.  It also hosts several large social events throughout
the year such as happy hours, sports outings, movie nights, theater nights, and
formal dances.

The GPSG Assembly Board holds monthly meetings throughout the year, and
consists of delegates from the graduate student governments (GSGs) of each of
the 14 schools, as well as delegates from several other graduate student
associations (GSAs), typically cultural in nature.  The A&S-GSO sends up to
three delegates to these meetings.  The GPSG office is located at **WPU 825**,
where the administrative assistant holds approximately 16 office hours each
week.  For details, visit the GPSG website at
[http://gpsg.pitt.edu](http://gpsg.pitt.edu).

In addition to the above, there are also regional and national student
associations to be aware of.  GPSG is represented on the **Pittsburgh Student
Government Council (PSGC)**, which is composed of student governments from all
member schools of the Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (PCHE), a
consortium of ten accredited colleges and universities in the greater
Pittsburgh area.  The PSGC website is at
[http://studentsofpittsburgh.com](http://studentsofpittsburgh.com) and more
information about the PCHE can be found at
[http://www.pchepa.org](http://www.pchepa.org).

GPSG is also a member of the Northeast region of the **National Association of
Graduate-Professional Students (NAGPS)**, which represents and advocates for
graduate and professional students across the United States to local, state,
and federal policymakers.  The NAGPS website is at
[http://nagps.org](http://nagps.org).

# Financial structure

# Responsibilities to the students

# Responsibilities to student government

