While adequate representation in student government is important, equally
important to the well-being of graduate students in the CS Department are the
social outlets the CS-GSO provides to its students on an ongoing basis.  This
chapter aims to highlight the scope of the programs and services which the
CS-GSO endeavors to provide to its surrounding academic community.


# Coffee Hour

By far the most visible social event organized by the CS-GSO is the weekly
Coffee Hour.  It aims to support the learning community of graduate students,
faculty, and staff by allowing them to socialize in an informal setting, apart
from their studies and day-to-day responsibilities.

Traditionally, Coffee Hour is held in the Faculty Lounge (6323) weekly on
Mondays from 3:30--4:30pm, although this is moved to Tuesday in the event of a
University holiday or the GPSG graduate and professional student orientation in
August.  Coffee Hour is held every week throughout the year, except over the
winter holidays.

**Signups** are held for volunteers to bring food and drink on a weekly basis.
Signup sheets should be prepared in advance of each academic term.  **Weekly
signin sheets** are also needed for reimbursement verification purposes.  Past
signup and signin sheets can be found in `docs/coffeehour`.

The department provides up to $25.00 in reimbursement to each week's
host.  The department also provides coffee, coffee filters, cups, plates,
napkins, and plasticware.  Detailed instructions for hosts are posted online at
[http://gso.cs.pitt.edu/coffeehour/directions.php](http://gso.cs.pitt.edu/coffeehour/directions.php).

CS-GSO officers should offer assistance to Coffee Hour hosts in any setup or
cleanup as needed.  One officer should be designated as the main **Coffee Hour
coordinator.**  This person should send a reminder email to each week's host on
the Friday prior to their scheduled week, such as the following:

	Michael,

	Just a reminder that you're scheduled to host Coffee Hour this Monday, 4
	August 2014, at 3:30pm in the Faculty Lounge (6323).  The budget is $25.00;
	after the event, your itemized receipts go to Michele in 5113 for
	reimbursement.

	Please see a workstudy in the Main Office (6135) around 3:00 or 3:15pm to
	get into the Faculty Lounge to set up.  I'll bring you the sign-in and
	sign-up sheets around that time.  If you need detailed instructions, you
	can find them at http://gso.cs.pitt.edu/coffeehour/directions.php

	Thanks for volunteering!  Please acknowledge this message and let me know
	if I can give you a hand with anything.

Just before each Coffee Hour, the Coffee Hour coordinator should bring the host
signup sheet for the current term, a fresh signin sheet marked with the date
and the name of this week's host, and several pens to the Faculty Lounge.

After Coffee Hour has ended (either because all the food is gone, all the
people are gone, or both), the Coffee Hour coordinator should retrieve the
signup sheet and the pens for use next week.  The signin sheet, however, should
be given to the host to be filed with their reimbursement.  Any leftover food
should be delivered to the Graduate Lounge (6317); leftover coffee should be
disposed of.


# Welcome Picnic

The largest department-wide event organized by the CS-GSO is the Faculty,
Staff, and Graduate Student Picnic, held on the Friday of the first week of
fall classes (that is, the Friday between 29 August and 4 September inclusive).
It is also the event that requires the **most coordination, dedication, and
planning** from the officers of the CS-GSO.

The easiest way to frame the finances for this event are to **think of it as a
departmental event,** since the department pays for _almost_ everything
involved.  The CS-GSO simply coordinates the gathering of food and supplies for
the picnic; provides the labor necessary to plan, setup, and run the event; and
advertises the event to the department.

## Picnic budget

There are four aspects to the picnic budget:

* The **picnic permit** is required by the City of Pittsburgh for use of its
  shelters, and is paid for by the department.  There is a surcharge for the
  right to have alcohol on the premises, which the department also pays for.

  Typically this payment should be coordinated in mid-February as soon as
  shelter reservations open for the new year.  In 2014, the shelter permit cost
  **$150.00.**

* A **food and supplies budget** is set in coordination with the department
  chair.  This is used to purchase:

    * Hamburgers, hot dogs, sausages, and vegetarian "bean burgers"

    * Buns for all of the above

    * Condiments such as cheeses, tomatoes, onions, lettuce, pickles, ketchup,
      mustard, relish, and mayonnaise

    * Chips and dips

    * Cookies and other desserts

    * Fruit such as watermelon

    * Orange juice

    * Bottled water

    * Lots of ice (to keep everything cold)

    * Any necessary supplies that are not already in storage or cannot
      otherwise be acquired from the department such as charcoal, lighters,
      lighter fluid, foil sheets, catering dishes, plastic table coverings,
      freezer bags, garbage bags, hand sanitizer, and sanitary gloves

    In 2014, this budget was **$300.00.**  In the event that a budget increase
  may be necessary or desired, data on past years' purchases and the resulting
  leftovers will be more persuasive in negotiations with the chair.  This data
  can be found in `docs/picnic`.

* **Soda** is also provided by the department; however, since the department
  generally has cans of soda in its stockrooms for other events, this is **not
  typically enumerated as a separate expense.**  Coordinate with Deb to ensure
  that a wide array of sodas will be available for the CS-GSO to take from the
  department stockroom and use on the day of the picnic.

* **Alcohol,** due to University regulations, must be provided and paid for by
  the CS-GSO if it is present.  Typically, this decision is made in the days
  right before the picnic, with an eye toward the weather forecast, as if it
  is too hot, people may be less apt to drink beer.  A couple cases is usually
  more than enough, so the CS-GSO should plan on spending **$30.00 to $45.00**
  of its own funds on this, if desired.

In addition to the above, in order to help offset the cost of the event (and
make the alcohol reimbursement easier or obviate it altogether), communications
to members of the department advertising the picnic typically suggest that
attendees bring either a side dish or a cash donation (usually $8.00).
A Google Document or similar should be created to allow those bringing side
dishes to report their intentions, so as to avoid over-buying similar items.
Either Karen or Mackenzie can facilitate the collection of cash on the CS-GSO's
behalf in advance of the picnic; however, be aware that some donations may be
brought to the picnic itself.

**It is especially important the new students should _not_ be made to feel
obligated** to contribute food or cash to the picnic.  The primary source of
this cash is from staff and a few faculty members, but there is no harm if a
student is willing to donate.

Any remaining cash after directly reimbursing the purchase of alcohol and
covering any over-budget spending should be added to the Petty Cash fund for
use at a future event.

## Planning the picnic

## Day of the picnic

## After the picnic

Return all leftover food to the Graduate Lounge (6317) and remaining supplies
to the proper storage areas.  Leftover soda should be kept in CS-GSO storage or
an office over the weekend, and its return to the department stockroom should
be coordinated with Deb on the next business day.

**Leftover beer cannot be kept in the building,** and should be distributed
amongst the officers present to be promptly and discreetly removed from the
building, whether intended for use at a later off-campus CS-GSO event, for the
personal use of those receiving it, or otherwise.


# Halloween Party


# Holiday Party


# International Luncheon


# Other events

